# MAY 17TH, 2024 - We are officially a company!
Nothing like finding out that your LLC paperwork went through like getting a letter letting you know you need to do your taxes. To be honest I have never been so excited to get tax information. For this project I (Rachel Rudy) will be taking on most of the business aspects of the company. This involves contract writing and managing our budget, two things I’ve really never done before. It’s certainly daunting, but I will admit it has been super fun to try to figure all of this stuff out.

In more important game news we have begun getting our hands in-engine. My partner in production Caden and I have gone through the hard work of setting up cross discipline teams. This is the first time we’ve ever done this so seriously for a project, most of our teams are at least five people smaller than the 18 we have now, and so we usually kept to discipline teams, or paired designers with programmers. That’s another thing that’s unique about this project, we are working with a lot of artists! Game Art is a different track at our school, and it’s still relatively new, so it’s still being integrated into the Game Design track. Aside from projects for our end of the year showcase, this is the first time we’ve managed a team with more than one game artist. It has been super fun to watch their progress up close, and I hope to learn a lot more about the game art pipeline during this project.

We will hopefully have some of our other contributors talking on here soon, but in the meantime let me talk to you about what we’re making! 

Our current concept is: You’re aboard a spacecraft minutes from destruction. While trying to help crewmates and prevent smaller disasters, the ship will be destroyed. Luckily you’re stuck in a time loop, so you can save the ship. Unfortunately you’re stuck in a time loop, so you have to save the captain and steer the ship out of a black hole all within a short amount of time. We’re taking influence from "The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy”  by Douglas Adams, and "A Long Way to a Small Angry Planet” by Becky Chambers to build interesting alien characters and cultures to populate a first-person trial-and-error exploration puzzle game, all to be completed by August.
I know, it’s a little ambitious, but that’s what a summer project is for, right? Well either way, we’re excited to show you our progress as we get to our first playable date, fastly approaching on the 31st! See you then.

-Rachel