# MAY 24TH, 2024 - Art Team Feature
Hey everyone this week we want to feature our art team, so here’s them talking about the work they’ve been doing so far!

“To me, concept art is my chance to be a designer instead of an artist. Yes, the actual designers give me the prompt that I have to follow, but in the end, I’m still the creative making the characters come to life through visuals. My favorite part of the process is definitely the first step because that’s where I get to run wild and really test the limits of how far I can go while still having the criteria needed for the character. Sometimes those insane ideas that I just so happened to put together get to make it to round 2. It’s a whole other level of “woah! I made that!” because it will not only be my 3D model but also my IDEA.” - Jasper

“I'm a VFX artist at Placebo Entertainment, and I'm also making character concept art. Thing is, I didn't study to be an artist; my VFX skills are self-taught and concept art is very new to me. It's been quite a unique and fun -and a little stressful- experience working on concept art alongside actual game art students. This project has been a good chance to work with new people, learn new skills, and most importantly, enjoy doing it!” - Caelie

“For the environment art, we wanted to step a bit outside of the beaten sci-fi path, going for a friendly and inviting tone, as opposed to the typical cold and clinical spaces one might expect. We’ve primarily taken inspiration from retrofuturism, mid-century modern architecture, and Soviet industrial design, borrowing their warmer color palettes and unusual yet stylish shape language.
  
For the character art, we decided to emulate the style of stop-motion Claymation, focusing primarily on creative shape language and design. While the environments are meant to feel cozy and familiar, the characters will feel the opposite. We will attempt to match many of the quirks and uncanny characteristics of the medium, utilizing a custom-built shader that mimics things like shifting fingerprints and form inconsistencies between frames.” - Miles

“One of the most intimidating things for me to create as a character artist is concept art. It's one of those skills I enjoy but struggle with. One thing that helps me immensely is character briefs. These helped me so much to guide me in a direction where I want to go and not have one million ideas floating in my head. Character briefs typically include descriptions from designers outlining the initial vision for a character, focusing on functionality and a rough narrative. I was in charge of designing the “Angel” and player character.

Designing the Angel
Brief: Comes from a planet completely bountiful in resources, however, recently has suffered constant attack from raiders and bandits, and has turned the commonly open minded and friendly people cold and skeptical of outsiders.

The angel started with another artist Jasper on the first iterations then handed off to me! After reviewing feedback, I decided to refine two of the strongest designs, each with a distinct appearance. One design took on a more alien aesthetic, while the other depicted a commanding, powerful humanoid figure. This whole process was very split on which way to take the character but ultimately, I chose the humanoid design to balance our already diverse array of animalistic characters.
 
Designing the Player Character
Brief: A human from Earth. Passed the space exploration exam with flying colors and has been given a rare opportunity to start their career as second in command on the ship. First week on the job. Motivated, bright eyed.

For the player character, I began with loose sketches to determine the character's silhouette and gather initial feedback. The team decided to exclude the face and opted for a more generic work outfit. I first did very loose sketches to find out the silhouette of the character and get feedback, our team decided to exclude the face and have a more generic work outfit. Our design team has been a great help on what works with the narrative they want to tell and how to work it into our character designs. I iterated more and got a final helmet and outfit design. I had to work around the main colors of the other alien designs that were finished and we had the final design!” - Amanda
